1. In IT what is a server and what is a proxy server? (1p)

Proxy servers which are either systems or routers, which give gateway access between the user and the internet. An example would be HTTP server - HTTP gives user access to the web. 

2. What is a CPU and how does it work? (1p)

C - Central P - Process U - Unit; it allows the computer to process and store  data, input results and also output results, - whatever instruction given to the computer via program, it will do. CPU basically works by following simple instructions and executing them. 

3. What is RAM and what are differences between CPU and RAM? (1p)

R-Random A-Access M-Memory; this is where data is kept for short term memory - this is for the processor.
RAM keeps the data & CPU does the input / output etc it does the instruction part so the computing 
E.g if you input red and blue = purple, thats the CPU and it gets that info from RAM


4. What is an OS (operating system), can a computer work without an OS? (1p)

OS - it is the system software that deals with computer programs, computer hardware and system resources
It is impossible for a computer to work without an OS, without OS it can not run and execute programs. No OS means no computer hardware or software. 

5. Describe what is a Computer Network? (1p)

it is basically a set of computers that share data and resources - so they receive, transmit and swap data. 

6. What is a web server port? (1p)

in simple terms it is a communication end point. they swap info between web servers and the web client. the most common ports are port 80 and port 443.

7. What is TCP and its services? (1p)

T- Transmition C-Control - P-Protocol; allowing programs and computers to swap data over network. so delivers data through bytes and receives data through bytes 

8. What is a Command Line (command line interface CLI) (1p)

We use CLI to run programs, keep managment of files and give the computer instructions and interact with it - we input command prompts in the CLI such as "mkdir" which creates a directory.  

9. Difference between console, command line (CLI), terminal and Shell (1p)

Console - it is a type of terminal - it is a physical terminal 
Command Line - this is a type of interface, allowing the user to enter commands, e.g the terminal is a command line
Terminal - is an enviroment that allows users to input instructions and it outputs resultd, we can interact with the shell through this
Shell - interpets the command line - the UI of shell allows the user to interact with the OS. 

What is Linux? 1(p)

it is an ipen source operating system
